Lilliana Robinson: Okay, cool.
Lilliana Robinson: perfect. Okay, thank you so much. I will hand it over to you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, also. Alan.
Alex: Yes, but.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: By the way, if there's ever anything that you do want to share that's kind of sensitive or confidential, just let us know, and we could pause. It.
Alex: Sure awesome. Yeah, as as everybody who comes to text ourselves. You know what happens here, what happens to text ourselves? We had a bunch of stories. So we're like, never told this to anybody. But I'm gonna tell you guys nothing. Nothing crazy like that here. So feel free to record.
Lilliana Robinson: And people were prepared a lot of questions to it. People have been very excited to hear from you. So is it okay? If, as you are speaking. Maybe people raise their hand or unmute and ask them.
Alex: Yeah, I'll pause. I'll pause after every slide and let you guys ask questions.
Lilliana Robinson: Awesome. Okay. I know they're eager to ask you some stuff, so I'm excited to get into it.
Alex: Sounds great
Alex: cool. Let me share my screen real quick.
Alex: Let me know if you guys see this, if it needs to be bigger.
Lilliana Robinson: Looks great.
Alex: Oh, good. Okay, awesome. So I'll start with
Alex: several of the basics, you know. Not a lawyer, not a financial advisor. So none of this is either legal advice or investment advice and
Alex: also, none of this is prescriptive. As you listen to more and more stories, you're gonna hear very, very different experiences companies fundraising. So this is just one company's perspective. So take everything I say, with a grain of salt and kind of adapted to your own situation.
Alex: Cool. Let's get going. So this this used to be an important decision, probably left, though, now. But you know, are you doing this remote, or are you doing with the person during Covid all of fundraising was remote, and we actually raised remotely
Alex: through all 4 rounds due to Covid, except for the only in person meeting we had was our final series, a partner meeting, which we flew out to Philadelphia for so again. My experience is unique here, because all of my fundraising was done through zoom.
Alex: and maybe it would have been easier and better to do it in person. As I meet more investors in person. Now I see how much easier it is, not having done it before, so I highly recommend. We'll get into kind of the sequencing of stuff. But I highly recommend to
Alex: switching to a person at a certain point of your fundraising process.
Alex: Yeah, mainly as as you guys probably know in person. Just people place more question you after having met you. And there's a lot more body language that expresses people's interest, and stuff that you just don't see over zoom
Alex: cool. So not sure where everybody is, as far as you know, whether you raise money before or not whether this is kind of preceded or not. But all of this is also gonna vary by round size. So I'm gonna kinda address the various round sizes since. How much we're fundraising since we've gone through a bunch.
Alex: and the approach is slightly different, depending on how much money you're raising, and it gets, you know, can be easier, more complex, depending on how big of a check they're looking for. And what's what level of sophistication of investor you're speaking to.
Alex: So starting out with small raises under 1 million dollars, you know, this was up. We actually raised 3 tech stars. We had a fee, a couple of C checks free text stars. Then then we did text ours, and then we did a little bit more with another C raise afterwards. So under a million bucks. Easiest thing to do is not to go
Alex: after institutional investors. It's really just the financial angels who, believing you trust you aren't gonna deal with kind of heavy diligence. And you know, we'll give you money based on
Alex: based on your idea and based on their custom. Believe in you as a person so less than a million bucks you, you know you can. Finally, it's always nice to have somebody putting in a larger check like at least, you know 100 200 k, so you can say, Hey, this person is leading the round, but at least not strictly necessary. You can just collect a bunch of space from folks and say, Hey, this is enough.
Alex: Th! This is enough to get us to work, and next stage, so same goes for process. A very strict process isn't typically necessary, but
Alex: learning the process and learning to organize your fundrais at this stage is really going to help you in future stages. I made this mistake.
Alex: did this very ad hoc, and it kind of did us when we get when we got to a series a, and it was a much more sprinting process, and the timing got very complicated because we weren't ready to run a very organized fundraise and I'll get to that a little bit later as far as the instruments to use during a raise under a million bucks typically safe. Ycs, or convertible notes. I know
Alex: verbal notes. So, you know, stick to those. It's easier. You can take money at different times. You don't need to get everybody synced up on timing.
Alex: I see some questions.
Alejandra Guillen: I I have a question.
Alex: Hmm.
Alejandra Guillen: Hi, Alex! Hi, Molly, from from aware we're building something a little bit similar to nutris sense. It. It includes a wearable as well. My question is, what was the average size of the check that you were
Alejandra Guillen: asking to angels, and what was the average time to check. So how does this timeline compare also to progressive series with Vcs.
Alex: Yeah, it's a good question. It really depends on what
Alex: who you know and what you have coming in. Right? So pre text stars we raised, I think, 300 k. From somebody I knew well, somebody I worked with before. Who does angel investing, and it was a it was very easy, right? We got coffee, and he said, but I mean and I'll give you some cap. And then that, added to the techstars safe was enough to get us through.
Alex: You know all of techstars, and gave us time to do a property raise afterwards. So.
Alex: But after talk stars, I think that next
Alex: I guess you can call it an official feed round. Took us
Alex: let's say maybe
Alex: 3 to 6 months. Actually have some some nodes down at the bottom as far as timing goes.
Alex: And and typically.
Alex: typically, most rounds are gonna take at least 3 months unless you're you know, if you're really, really crushing it. And there are people lining up to give you money. It's very different. This was not our situation. So this is not the sort of, you know, unicorn growth story where people are knocking our door down, and we had to like refuse people. Even for a series. A probably talk to.
Alex: I think with 85 investors before we got a lead.
Alex: and we only got one spreadsheet. So again depending on depending on how fast you're going, and how easy it is to kind of what space you're in, and you know whether it's in whether that space is hot right now, everybody's adding AI to them at their startup things.
Alex: If it's a different last time.
Alejandra Guillen: Thank you.
Alejandra Guillen: But so so to clarify, you only took essentially one check from Angel Fund, a angel investors, which was that 300 k. From friend.
Alex: We. Actually, we took angel checks throughout all of our fundraising every single round. We took money from angels because they were. You know, they were able to fill filled around for us a lot of the time. So if we were, you know, a million dollar short, even if it's a bigger round, it's totally okay to get angels involved.
Alejandra Guillen: Thank you.
Alex: Hmm
Alex: cool, and you guys can just
Alex: I can't see everybody, so I can't see who's got their hands up. I don't know if lilliana you wanna call them people.
Lilliana Robinson: Yes, you guys, you're Kevin. You're next. You guys can just go when it's your turn. You got it.
Kevin: Yeah, sure. Thanks. Thanks, Lianna. Alex. I'm Kevin founder for Gift Graham. Just a question just regarding some of the safes. I don't know. Do you particularly have, like a personal preference, like save value cap, no discount, safe discount, no value cap and a Mfn like, is there.
Alex: Yeah, correct.
Kevin: Something that you see.
Alex: Yeah.
Kevin: Favorable.
Alex: I actually got a section here called safe or unsafe. And we're gonna we're gonna cover all of that stuff.
Kevin: Both.
Kevin: Thank you.
Alex: Nucha.
Mark Kirzhner (Cicada): Hi! Thanks so much for for joining the call. Really excited to to learn from you today. Just the question about targeting angels. How do you target angels? I tried to sign up for? Okay. So we raised $200,000 total. Of which 120 was through techstars so we did raise something like 75 k. From angels. And those are people that I had a previous relationship with how do I target outside of my network.
Mark Kirzhner (Cicada): or should I even at all? Because I tried to sign up for one of these like angel groups like I live in La. And there's this angels thing. And they wanted they did not basically let me even talk to them. And they said, you know. Talk to us when you have more traction. Is that the main pathway, or do you have?
Mark Kirzhner (Cicada): Do you have tips on that.
Alex: Yeah, I'm gonna I'm gonna jump over here to the references. So there are a bunch of places to find angel investors. Obviously, a warm intro is is the best right. If you if somebody's connected
Alex: through Linkedin and you know they're an angel investor, you, you ask your friends, or finally for intros. There, then, you guys don't need to write all this down. I'll send you the Pdf. Afterwards. Now, there's a lot of databases. What I like to do is actually kind of a hacky thing which is, go and angelist become part of a syndicate like actually sign up as an investor as part of a syndicate, and then reach out to the Syndicate lead, and.
Alex: you know, just reach out to chat about the syndicate, and then kind of you know. Slide in a little pitch of your company and see if they're interested. And Angel looks lets you filter by early stage late fasion, and so on. So it's an easy way to get on a call with somebody.
Alex: That that's one way, you know that there are
Alex: lots of databases out there to kind of Google, Doc sheets and text starts on the database, I'm sure. So.
Alex: and and a few things like Cchom, where it's a very, very quick process. You just give them your deck, and they expect them to tell you like yes or no. You can pitch to us. And there, there's also something gets like launch, which are a little bit later stage or different accounts. Where you again apply, you go with some information and then depending on what stage you're at, they'll let you pitch to their syndicate.
Mark Kirzhner (Cicada): We we raised from lunch already. That was our first check in.
Alex: Oh, perfect. Yeah.
Mark Kirzhner (Cicada): And that's because I knew Jason from a previous okay, great so we just basically do a lot of research. And we qualify leads. And we run basically a sales process. That's it.
Alex: Yeah, yeah, exactly. And we'll get into that. We'll get into the process in a couple of minutes.
Alex: Think.
Lilliana Robinson: Antonio.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Hi, Alex, I'm Antonio, co-founder of aware as well like with with Ali, we're doing a wearable for eg. Technology for mental wellbeing.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So the stage where that we we're doing launching pre-sale on on Demo Day. And then in 6 months from now in December. We're gonna launch the actual crowdfunding campaign.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: and we're trying to time that with so the next 6 months we're gonna do sales. And Dan give us a lot of really practical tips on how to do that
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: through social media and stuff. And
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: what we realize, we're realizing running our financial model that we need at least some somewhere about around the 500 K. Of angel funding, having a safe. Maybe
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: so. But what we heard from from Dan. Is that? Do the sales first, and then raise money?
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: What are your thoughts that may? Maybe he mentioned more like seed round and on Angel like. Would it be a good time at this point
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: to to to to ask a funding from angels, even if we don't have the kpis that we need to to show that. And what was your time also with nutrisines like? When did you start the sales? When do you get those 3? The first $300,000 check.
Alex: Yeah, first, 300,000 check was Pre product it was pre text stars. Pre, product. We we I, I guess we. Well, we did have a prototype. I think we were pre sales at that point. But if you have a demo product, that's that's good enough for a lot of angels like if you if you have something there there impressed by, I mean, especially if you guys are building hardware. That's
Alex: a a prototype is is difficult, right? It takes a lot of time. It takes some resources. It takes some capital investment. So if if you have a demo product, I think, in a hardware startup that's that's already good enough that you've put into work. And be able to raise 500 K with a prototype. I don't see a problem with that.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: And the prototype can be also an existing, a consumer product that uses our app in our algorithms, right? Doesn't have to be cause we we have a we have a prototype. We're gonna release a prototype at the end of the month for demo day. Our own product, hardware prototype.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: but it's probably gonna be not functional in the in the next month or so
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: that this should.
Alex: Yeah.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: But now.
Alex: It for sure. That's what we did right. Our our Cgms, our wearables aren't manufactured by us. We use off the shelf, you know, update approved devices made by.
Alex: But that's come. So our prototype was also just a software and services layer on top of that hardware. So if you guys are, you know, building algorithms on top of data from another company's product. That's a that's a risk you're gonna run into and later fundraising. But it sounds like you're you are building your own hardware. It just not there yet. So a software prototype is protocol.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: Those are all the questions for now, Alex.
Alex: Okay, awesome.
Alex: Alright. So moving on round sizes that are one to 5 million dollars
Alex: so in our case, folks text stars. I believe our seed ground was like 3.5 million and we raised that without a lead actually, launch was, our
Alex: launch was technically our lead investor. That was a syndicate. So we raised the whole 3.5 million from syndicates and angels. So it is doable. You do not need to go to you know large funds to raise one to 5 million these days. The syndicates are fairly large, and if you find enough of them. And if you find enough angels
Alex: you can totally throw around of of the size. A lead really helps in terms of just having somebody that puts in a large check and can vouch for you. Because there's this, you know, there's there's kind of kind of proxy trust you got their lead. Where, when somebody like launch, I think everybody understands that launch does some diligence. And
Alex: there, there's also presentation process. And they're saying we get kind of both, and whether they want to invest in your company or not. So it helps. Having either a large enough syndicate or a large enough. We check to where people can trust that enough diligence like them done.
Alex: again, when it comes to organization in around this size the timing and organization is a lot more important. So we'll get into timing in a little bit, but really just doing like
Alex: as they come trying to convince people and trying to raise money. When you're raising this size of around is a lot harder. Because you're gonna constantly run into the chicken or a problem of Okay, who's your lead? How much? How many people are committed? And you're gonna say, well, you know, you're the first, and they're gonna say cool, come back to me when you have have their own committed, and this is gonna happen over and over and over again.
Alex: And so if you don't time this well and run it like a sales funnel, and we'll get into that. It's been brought up already. At this point it's gonna be a lot harder, I think around this size, you can just kind of wing it and say, I'm gonna raise a couple of savings and caller a day when it comes to more than a million dollars. You really do want to organize your fundraise.
Alex: You can still do safe notes. We want all safe on our second round.
Alex: And again, syndicates are a good way to raise larger checks from groups of angels. So we're one angel can put in, you know, 2 to 500 k. Syndicate can put in 2 million especially syndicates as large as Jason
Alex: Cool. If there's no questions on this one. We can kind of jump to the next stage.
Alex: Cool. So rounds over 5 million. This is where syndicates are typically not enough.
Alex: and you really do need at least one large commitment to get others to move. Also, there's a lot more diligence that's required, and a lot more kind of proxy trust that you need to get so having a proper lead here is important. It does not have to be an institution lead. It can be a family office. It can be. You know somebody famous. If you take a check from I don't know Sam often, or something like that right?
Alex: so. But you do want to prioritize finding the lead first before trying to fill the rest of the round, because the rest of your whole round is, gonna depend on the trust that people have for your lead, and how much money they put in themselves.
Alex: The again, the process here much more important. Otherwise, things are gonna drag out like 6 to 9 months. And you definitely don't want that happening when you need to work on the company at this point. Angel syndicates crowdfund funding all of that stuff can still help, can still help. You know. You can raise a quarter or half of your round, preferably from a lead and the rest you can fill through. Prorada and your existing angel investors and syndicates, and you know any new angels and syndicates who want to come in
Alex: alrighty.
Alex: There's no question here. I'm gonna
Alex: keep moving, I think. When it comes to really large rounds again. All of these things just are amplified, right? With a very large check, typically more than 75% of your own. And you really don't want to spend time taking 10 K checks from from angels, because you're gonna need a lot of those. So the larger ground, the more important. The lead and the size of their check is and also they're, you know, they're
Alex: kind of who they are in the community and whether people know them.
David Akinyemi: Question, Alex chime in here, David, I can get me CEO of Tux. The question is around.
David Akinyemi: was using text, the techstar's narrative as them, being already a leading investor, helpful when it came to raising capital? Or was that something
David Akinyemi: you kind of avoided and looked for another lead? more for this the smaller rounds, with not not above 5 million, but the 1 million to 5 million below that. Was that valuable? Or were you kind to try and avoid that.
Alex: Texas was helpful in getting us out there and getting those first incoming incoming emails from investors.
Alex: But it wasn't, you know, just just folks to watch Demo Day reaching out to us and saying they're interested and talking. So they
Alex: it definitely helps to cut the time to kind of first first batch of people reaching out to you. But unfortunately, I think yc, is really the only the only accelerator that's gonna give you enough cloud to basically have people lighting up for your seed ground.
David Akinyemi: Yeah, I I guess maybe clarify not a question around
David Akinyemi: the cloud of the recognition, but more of the concept of someone's like, Hey, who's your lead investor? Oh, techstars! My lead investor! Did that land well, or was it like, no, that's an accelerant that's not a lead investor.
Alex: Yeah, I I wouldn't call techstar to lead a mustard, because every accelerator program is gonna give you a check. They're they're gonna want somebody outside as our service.
David Akinyemi: Gotcha. Thank you.
Alex: Cool so quick detour on the safe. So all your safe questions are welcome. I can. I can run through these real quick, you know.
Alex: High Level concepts to know, you know, free or post money the default yc, is post money. You should know that it matters later on when these days convert in your in your 30 day, and so on.
Alex: Caps. You need to understand what a cap is on a post money, save the cap is really easy to interpret. Kind of pre money, save that's a little bit difficult. With a cap and post money safe. It's basically you know, if you have an if you're raising it, 1 million dollars, I don't. 8 million post many safe. That implies that the investor gets 4 and a half percent of the company super easy to do. Math pre. Money saves. It's a little harder to do that math, but they technically benefit you
Alex: when the safes convert. So there's a little bit of a trade off on using Pre or post money saves
Alex: discounts. That's the other economic term in a safe. That's so. You have a cap and you have a discount. If your
Alex: cap is so, the faith has a cap of 8 million, but your next round is at 9 million.
Alex: The investor has a choice. Do they take the discount on the cap?
Alex: Being slightly lower than the next round, or do they take the discount? That is specified here, which could be a 20% discount, which is, which is better than the discount they would get on the cap, and they get to choose the better of the 2
Alex: auto conversion. This is something that I'm pretty sure
Alex: I'm not sure if why, I think we had to add this to our safe, because this wasn't a default clause in the Yc. Safe. Some investors will ask for this. This basically means that eventually they're safe, has to auto convert to shares. Otherwise you could just raise a bunch of money and safes, never raise again, and never have to give any equity to your investors until you have an exit.
Alex: If the safe has no auto conversion clause.
Alex: what else? So most favored nation.
Alex: This is kind of an investor safety net. They just want to know that in this round
Alex: you're not gonna change the terms on them like you give them a 8 million safe. And then you give somebody a 7 million cap safe other friend. Just means they're gonna get the best deal that you offered anyone in in this round. So the safety net for the investor pretty typical and usually no issue with giving that to folks unless they're unless your whole strategy is to like raise that are staggered.
Alex: That's good.
Alex: Yep.
Jennifer Loh: Sorry, Jennifer low here from Travis. I was gonna ask you so those terms that the clauses that you added into your safe notes that were more like
Jennifer Loh: net positive for the investor.
Jennifer Loh: Are those the things that they bring up? And they asked to bring it to add it to the to the safe.
Jennifer Loh: and then, when they do bring those things up, do you usually try to negotiate it
Jennifer Loh: off off of the off the safe, or do you just agree to it like, how often do investors bring up terms that are just not favorable to founders? And therefore you have to negotiate or just
Jennifer Loh: take what they give you.
Alex: Yeah. So everything I've talked about so far is not worth negotiating about like out of conversion, whatever like their face converts equity in 3 years, but it's fine. But that is kind of assumptions that they're eventually gonna own equity in their company.
Alex: I know I know some companies have not had this, and and like just became a profitable company, and it's never converted their face. And unless there's a pissed because they don't own inequity, but they just have this like piece of paper that says that, hey? If we ever sell, we promise you sell shares.
Alex: and unless there's never become shareholders in the company
Alex: so really sucks for the investor, but also not typically your intention. Right? The your intention is to raise another round and convert their face. So this is not a scary one most favorite nation both to find again, unless you're trying to do this whole stagger valuation thing. It just means that you're gonna give everybody the same deal.
Alex: The side letters as well.
Jennifer Loh: All.
Alex: Guesses.
Jennifer Loh: With techstars. They they're
Jennifer Loh: They're safe, is at a 3, 3 million cap.
Jennifer Loh: And so like, if we are trying to raise
Jennifer Loh: at a higher post money valuation than like
Jennifer Loh: technic.
Alex: Perfectly fine.
Alex: It's a it's a new round. Just call it a new round like. Your text starts round with the text, starts round, and that's it.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, that's fine, Julie.
Jennifer Loh: Okay? So that's another question I was gonna ask you said, you have 4 rounds of funding. But you're currently at series A, so essentially what you did was like an accelerator round, and then a precede, and then a seed, and then series a.
Alex: Yup, exactly.
Jennifer Loh: Okay. Thank you.
Alex: Yup, and I'll talk about the downsides of doing that also. Probably not the best choice in hindsight. But
Alex: the the side letters is where things get interesting. So pro rata is fairly common. What this gives the investor the option to do, not the. It's only an option. They don't have to do it, but basically is to maintain their state percentage stake ownership in the company. So if they give you enough money to own. I don't know 5%
Alex: in the next round they are able to put in up to whatever the cash number is to maintain a 5% stake
Alex: right? So whenever you raise a feature around like a series, a need to make sure to leave room for any provider holders to exercise their provider right?
Alex: And you know you could ask them ahead of time when you're raising like, are you going to exercise your parada right? And if they are, make sure you leave enough room in the ground. So if you're raising 25 million and you need 5 million, just for perada, make sure the lead check is maximum 20 million check because you are required to give them that provider if they choose to exercise it.
Alex: This is also a typical ask.
Alex: we actually didn't have too many people ask for maybe 3. And there's a standard for auto side letter from Yc, that you can pull. That comes along with us with the same.
Lilliana Robinson: It's it's important here to know that techstars has this, and they take it really seriously, and
Lilliana Robinson: I would say, like
Lilliana Robinson: not all the time, but they at least want to be able to consider exercising the right. So that's why
Lilliana Robinson: let them know when you're raising.
Alex: Yeah, totally. And and Texas has invested in all of our following rounds, which is awesome. Thank you. Texas.
Jennifer Loh: But for textors, aren't they invested in common shares? So like it's different. If you're investing.
Jennifer Loh: like doing a standard investment through preferred shares.
Alex: Pretty sure it's actually sold. Preferred shares as well. Correct me if I'm wrong. If anything's changed.
Alex: Hmm!
Jennifer Loh: I feel like it was comedy.
Lilliana Robinson: It's about the no, it's about the safe for the state. It's completely different. So like the convertible note, that's what that's what's different. So.
Jennifer Loh: So whether you know.
Lilliana Robinson: Exercise, the right time.
Jennifer Loh: Got it. Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: So it's not even relevant. If you didn't take the note.
Jennifer Loh: Right.
Mark Kirzhner (Cicada): So.
Alex: So.
Mark Kirzhner (Cicada): 2 Texas, 2 separate investments one of them. The small one is indeed for common shares, the 20 K. And then the 100 K. Optional. One is a convertible note that converts into preferred, just like any other standard convertible. Note.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Exactly. You got it right, Misha.
Alex: Yeah. Good. Point, good. Point.
Jennifer Loh: Sorry I was lumping them into 2, but I
Jennifer Loh: I don't know. Thank you.
Alex: Yeah, so yeah, their notes preferred their 7% or whatever is common. It sounds like, I honestly forgotten about that one.
Alex: and yeah, so the the other side letters is where things can get very custom and interesting, like investors can ask for other rights. And typically those won't be part of the safe language like you typically don't need to change the same. They'll just add on another side letter with extra language in there and ask for various things. Sometimes they'll ask for. Look. I know text ourselves as a side letter which is perfectly reasonable, like text asks for Information Rights board, Observer rights.
Alex: and and all of that is standard and and perfectly okay. Sometimes, you know, somebody might ask for board seat. Sometimes people might ask for some sort of I don't know.
Alex: they can ask for whatever they want. Honestly, I would not accept anything that is not standard. So information rights. That's fine. They just want updates under financials. Typically, also remember that you get to renegotiate all of this stuff in your next round. So any side letters, or any whatever your safes convert all of us. All of the side letters get thrown away, and you renegotiate everything.
Alex: So no, the the lifetime of the side letters is only until your next price round
Alex: yet. So
Alex: other notes on safes just try to keep us as standard as possible.
Alex: typical version of the post money safe, reasonable. Cap 20% discount is pretty standard. If you're in a good position you could do 10 3 year auto conversion no, most favored nation is the
Alex: common version of this. Some people will ask for it. I would not
Alex: typically give it out unless you. This is a big check.
Alex: And Provada again. Don't give it by default, but you can give it on request.
Alex: That's the first that we use.
Alex: And so most of our States were identical, except a couple of them had provider rights, and I think only one had a most favored nation clause.
Alex: One thing to know. And this is exactly why
Alex: the auto conversion is. Typically there is because if you, if you have a debt instrument, if you have a convertible note with techstars that note is accumulating interest. Right? So for for whatever time it doesn't convert you, are you? You're paying text interest on that note. Safes are not that instruments you do not have to. There's no interest associated with them. So if there's no liquidity event, technically the safe
Alex: or there's no price found. The safe does not have to convert. And that's why the auto converting clause is typically added to the investor field that eventually don't get actually owned shares of your company.
Alex: The obviously some companies liquidate. Right? If you have convertible notes. Those are considered that and you do have to. You are. That's top of the liquidation stack. You have to pay the done back. If you're if you're liquidating the company, the safes do not get that same treatment, so they would not sit at the top of the liquidation stack but it is, of course, good.
Alex: Good
Alex: you know. Good to leave enough money in the bank to pay back whatever investors you can.
Alex: So other instruments again, convertible notes fairly common. They are considered that they do have interest. And really, the sort of liquidation stack mechanics is is the only thing is different about them other than interest. I would try to stay away from mixing too many instruments. I know that text ourselves. A note that's fine but pick one and stick to it. That's gonna be
Alex: the easiest thing to do. Try not to mix like, you know. Have their buses. One convertible notes have their buses one save just say, Hey, we're doing things sorry, like we're not doing any convergible notes. And they typically won't call out text us because they know that text ourselves, a standard standard deal, that they do
Alex: cool any questions on
Alex: safe mechanics and technology.
Kelvin Alaneme: Okay, Alex, I think the question I have is,
Kelvin Alaneme: regarding safes and raising a normal round
Kelvin Alaneme: in as much as safe is very easy.
Kelvin Alaneme: It's also seems there are some disadvantages in terms of cost, so I don't know. How does that compare with you know? Let's say you're raising a million. How does that compare with doing a normal proceed round or raising it through safe in terms of
Kelvin Alaneme: the costs? Eventually, at the end.
Alex: Which costs like the legal costs or the dilution cost.
Kelvin Alaneme: No in terms of because we're talking about it with some of our lawyers. And they were like, you know, that safes. It's actually costly in the longer run. I think, with regards to maybe when it converts the equity that you lose in what? Yeah.
Kelvin Alaneme: yes.
Alex: Yes, I'm talking about it.
Kelvin Alaneme: And work.
Alex: Yeah, it. It's a good question. We learned this lesson a little bit late, but
Alex: that's where the Pre. Or postman, you see, comes in
Alex: the post money safe is pretty costly and when you stack them, when you stack multiple rounds of post money safes, the way they work is. When it comes time for your priced round all of the safes you raised. They are treated as
Alex: part of the preferred series. A round, and they will dilute you along with all of the money that's coming in from the series, investor, and only the founders are gonna get deluded by all of that cash
Alex: when you raise free money saves typically
Alex: the previous investors from the previous round also get diluted by the new cash.
Alex: So let's say, you raise 4 rounds of free money saves
Alex: you are not taking the brunt of the dilution yourself as the founders. It's you and the investors from the previous round takes a dilution for the next round, and then second second time again and again with post money saves. It's basically
Alex: the founders take the brand of dilution for all the safes, the series day money, and the new Equity pool. So there! I would try not to stack them. So once you raise a safe round, I would probably go to a price round the next time around. So I I think it's fine to do like you know your tech started round unsafe, and then your seed round unsafe
Alex: but then your next round. It would be better to do a price round if you can. If not, then oh, well, you know, do it on a safe, but you will pay a little bit of dilution later.
Kelvin Alaneme: Okay. Thank you very much.
Alex: Okay, so let's get into timing. What do you need before you kick things off? And again, we're focusing in our kind of slightly larger round where you really need to get the signing right really should get organized. So what sort of collateral do you need before you get started.
Alex: You definitely want a forwardable email that you can ask for intrals with. So when you ask for an intro, somebody's gonna say, hey? Send me a forwardable. This is an email introducing yourself, your company and asking for an intro to a specific investor that you want the introduction to. That makes it easier for your friend colleague whatever to make that intro. All they need to do is forward that email.
Alex: typically in the forwardable. You know, one page teaser, or a short deck, or just some metrics about your company, whatever you think is, gonna get their attention is is really all you need to include, like, I think, in our forward rules. We just included our revenue growth over the last, whatever the 6 months or something, and that was. That was enough to get calls for people. But you know, if it pre revenue
Alex: you can put a teaser deck or a one pager
Alex: pistol
Alex: data teaser duck is nice to have. Or later again, this is probably for
Alex: later around, when you actually have data to share but a data teaser deck is essentially screenshots of your financial models, of your financials. And then you don't need to send excel files. You just kind of have all of that stuff in your deck and have it.
Alex: that have it nicely.
Alex: nicely organized.
Alex: As far as the data room goes. This is not the point of time where you want to spend, you know, a month preparing a data room. You basically just want you want the basics under. You want historical financials. You want a financial model with some projections, and you want a cohort analysis, and that's relevant to your business.
Alex: I also highly recommend doing this, which is a screen recording walkthrough on loom of your financial model, because, nobody's gonna know how to use your like 27 excel sheet. So I. I do not recommend just sending somebody an excel sheet and being like, you guys got this. Just do a walkthrough in a video, and they then they can play around with it and understand how it works better.
Alex: Until you get to later rounds. You typically don't need much else. I mean, if you're a B Twob South business, they're gonna ask you for, you know, maybe some contract. Otherwise, things of that nature so different for different businesses. We were due to see all that mattered for us is, you know, our model, our cohort. Now.
Alex: the other thing you probably wanna do is create a monthly investor update. You guys have already talked about this with techstars, I'm sure. And stick to even before you start your round start updating anybody who gets in your contact list as far as investors go, start sending them monthly updates of your progress. And as you keep adding residents to the list.
Alex: Keep sending the updates throughout your fundraising process that way. They're gonna get to know your business better without having to do more calls with you that
Alex: than necessary. So cause they're they're constantly getting updates. They're seeing the progress. They're seeing the growth. It's just much easier to do the same thing. So we started building this list
Alex: as soon as we join techstars. In fact, every one of our techstars like what is called like the the feed. Dating folks have been on our investor updates since the very beginning
Alex: and then set a set a target date for when you want
Alex: your intro calls to start or sorry when you want to sign term sheet, so that you know you're shooting, for you know we want to sign sheet 3 months from now.
Alex: At this point everything does not have to be perfect focus on the basics. 80 20 rule just enough
Alex: to get to folks. It's something you can pull off the shelf if
Alex: we'll get to this in a second. But you don't want to be catering to every muster at this point in the during the Intro call process.
Alex: Any questions on the collateral and prep stuff.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Yeah. So Alex had a question. I'm telling you here again.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: so would this apply also to angels.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: or or it's mainly for price rounds or.
Alex: Yeah, this is really any any round. I I think post text layers where you do want to run a process when you're pitching to people you don't know right when you have a lead funnel of people you've never met before. I think all of the supplies, if you're just pitching to like angels, investors, you you already have connections with. Obviously, you can, you know, get a check over coffee. This is more of
Alex: okay. I need to at least talk to 2030 people in order to get enough Steve money. So anytime you're filling out the top of the funnel and running a fundraising process. All of this is gonna apply.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Okay, great. Thank you. And then a couple of more question. Another question regarding the angel. So if if you can clarify the difference between an angel and and a normal investor. It sounds like angel are more your friends.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: and and also in terms of equity that you give to an angel versus a like a price round or a seed round.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: And how would you initiate that conversation? I know this is very personal, but even with an angel like to say, Okay, we need 500 k. By the end of the year on a safe.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: How would you have that coffee with your friend, and have that conversation.
Alex: Oh, same exact way you would with any investor, I mean you. You tell them like, here are the terms we're raising in a 8 million cap on a safe note and the amount of equity they get just depends on how much money they give you. So th there's nothing special for angels versus other methods. You, you said the terms under faith.
Alex: Obviously the service depend on what people are willing to pay. But if you're, you know. If if your first couple of angels say like, Hey, no way, you guys aren't, you know I'm not gonna do whatever 30 million post money on your like free free revenue seat round well, you're gonna need to go down the price. So you kind of discover that as you start talking to people. But if you keep it pretty standard, you know. Post text. I think we raise the 8 million
Alex: post money. Yeah. And that seems reasonable to everybody.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Thank you.
David Akinyemi: Hey, Alex? One question, could you explain the the biggest difference between what's in the teaser deck and what's in your actual deck, and like what information you should be kind of holding out to get them interested, but not giving too much of like the sauce.
Alex: Yeah, the teaser deck is all the things that are gonna get people's attention right? So anything that causes them to have a bunch of questions about your business in the back of their mind. That's the stuff that should be in the teaser deck. You don't need to answer all those questions. You actually just want to get them excited enough to get in a call with you to ask those questions. Right? So if you're showing strong revenue growth, fantastic, or if you have, like, an amazing team of super experienced folks in this industry.
Alex: That's great. So whatever you want to put front and center. You know those should be the first slides in your deck. If revenue is your if you're growing fast, you know, revenue should probably be in the first 3 slides.
Alex: if you're. I don't know if you have some amazing hardware products, but that should be in the first couple of slides.
Alex: So it's all about
Alex: instead of like a one pager. We're trying to cram everything in a single page, and it's really really difficult to read. I would prefer a teaser deck where there's just enough slides in there to get somebody interested in asking questions in the in the back of their head and wanting to talk to you.
David Akinyemi: Thank you so much.
Kelvin Alaneme: Alex, I think my question is regarding debt financing.
Kelvin Alaneme: There seems to be this unspoken rule where
Kelvin Alaneme: people shawn it, or, you know, cast it in bad light. So I'm just thinking, if what is your experience like we're regarding debt financing, for instance, if you have, let's say you a company and lines of credit as well. If you have and somebody that is willing to give you maybe a debt of, let's say a million
Kelvin Alaneme: to put in the company. But then you don't pay. Some of them would tell you you don't pay any interest for the first 2 years. Something like that. Do you have any experience with it? Have you seen companies that do it? And
Kelvin Alaneme: Why, why is it
Kelvin Alaneme: frowned upon?
Kelvin Alaneme: If any.
Alex: I think it. It depends on when you are taking this money, so that at a free product company is not a good idea, because you have no idea what your return capital was like. You use that cost you something right. It cost you interest. You have no idea what your caps are. You have no idea. Like, if you can acquire customers, you don't. You don't know what your Ltv. Is.
Alex: With that you know the cost of capital like it's right there. It says, like, you know, 8% a year. So you need to make sure that whatever you're making off of that debt is better than 8% a year to make it worth it. And usually a company at an early stages doesn't have enough information to to know that what it does help with is
Alex: if you have inventory and you need a revolving credit line.
Alex: and you want to have like 90 day payment terms, so that you're so that you have a better cash flow situation where you know you can pay for the inventory 90 days later, instead of paying for it. Now, then, that makes total sense. What you're buying is 3 months of time to pay back your inventory cost.
Kelvin Alaneme: Yeah, thank you. William.
Alex: Yeah, and I'll chat about that a little bit later. But when you get into future rounds, when you do know your acquisition process. Do you know your lte? You do know that like, hey? If we take, if we take 5 million in debt and we spend that on marketing. We are going to get 20% return on our investment, and that only cost us whatever.
Alex: You know, 6 or 7% it. It was really easy to do that math and say, Okay, that makes sense. Why, why give away equity in my company? If I can just get this money essentially way cheaper
Alex: and and it's gonna be like, as soon as you raise a series a that's a sizable series. A, you're gonna get a you're gonna get a banks offering. You're done all day long like I I think the the most most common spam on my phone is people trying to sell me that.
Kelvin Alaneme: Okay. Thank you very, very much.
Alex: Okay. Awesome. So dax this may not be a popular opinion. I have never used Dex for pitches unless they I I've only used them for intro emails and the final partner call. So reason they're good for entry email. It gets people excited. It also allows whoever receives that intro email to show that deck to other partners you know, other folks in their fund
Alex: and talk about your company because they're not used to talking about your company, so they need some material they can use to to talk about it.
Alex: And then again, on the final partner, call the rest of the partners are not as informed on your company. So doing. A deck driven presentation makes sense. It gives them kind of a a lot more information visually, and answers a lot of the questions anything in between did not use an export. So all of the calls that happened were just conversations.
Alex: Everything. From the first intro call to the final call with the partner that says, Okay, let's do a partner meeting. I found that to be
Alex: a lot more comfortable. I didn't feel like I was presenting or being judged all the time on my presentation, and I felt like I could come in there, and you know.
Alex: Hold them. Tell them the story, and the story kind of, you know, shift and morphs and changes all the time, and not have to stick to a script as you're doing it. So, and then they can interrupt, ask questions. You can go back and forth. It just feels a lot more natural than being this
Alex: in in this kind of presentation sort of mode, where you're trying to get through a thing. And the other person doesn't know whether they can interrupt, and and so on. So I I just found it way more comfortable not to use that unless there's like a you know, if there's a visual slide of some like complicated thing with your hardware, something that makes those 2 up and show it to them.
Alex: As far as numbers go any numbers you should know by heart.
Alex: Deck can help you with visual stuff again, like visualizing hardware or pictures of your app.
Alex: Actually, if you have an app I'd recommend just doing a live demo. But Zoom lets you share your phone screen, you know. Just show them what the app does or if we're quickly answering questions that are just already in your deck?
Alex: But any sort of like numbers or anything, should be like. Oh, sorry! Let me pull up my deck, my deck, if they ask you about something you don't know. Just say, hey! I don't know. I I don't know that all the top of my head I can shoot you an email and let you know what that number is.
Alex: again, if you can't convince an investor to keep. You know house. Tell somebody other firm about your business. Then you have a story problem, not a back problem.
Alex: And again, take this with a grain of salt. You guys might, if you love ducks.
Alex: go for it. A lot of people use Dex. I just personally prefer not to
Alex: failing fast. So it is in the Vcs. Or investors best interest to drag the process out in order to collect as much information as possible in order for them to make a decision, because the more information they have, the better decision they can make on their investment. Your incentives are the opposite
Alex: right it is not to have them drag this out. It is to for them to give you a yes or no as quickly as possible. So sub timelines on everything. Somebody does not meet your timeline, remind them once.
Alex: and then move on.
Alex: And I know this is, gonna be painful. It was painful for me. It is going to be painful for you. It is something you just have to learn by doing like, no matter what I say, you will try to keep.
Alex: you know, trying to drag in old investors who like aren't moving fast enough. After doing this a few times, and if your top of the funnel is large enough. You're not going to care. So
Alex: after one reminder, they're not moving, just, you know. Forget about them. If they get reinterested again, they'll reach out to you.
Alex: And that that's the next point here, you know, unless they're sort of truly interested, they're gonna keep the momentum going without you having to push them along. If you have to push somebody along same thing as dating right like. If you have to keep trying to like restart conversation. Somebody's not answering your text
Alex: they're clearly not that interested and forcing. It isn't helpful you're only gonna be wasting your own time. So, failing fast to see here. And think of this as you know. Hell, yes or no.
Alex: and if they're slow, if they're kind of dragging things out soon to know and keep going.
Lilliana Robinson: Alex, can you speak to like getting nose or assuming it's a no cause. I have so many founders come to me after program when they're trying to raise and it it hurts
Lilliana Robinson: like founders when investors don't respond, and it almost feels personal. So like, how do you get over that? Almost like sentiment of oh, like they. They're not responding. They owe me a response like I feel slighted by this investor. How do you just shake it off and move on, and you don't care that it's a no.
Alex: Yeah, 2 things do not invest too much effort into any one of us, or early on right? You you want to.
Alex: you want to give everybody the same amount of attention. It's painful when you know you start talking to somebody, and they they force you out of your process, and they start to ask for more data, more information. And you do all this work and give it all to them before you give it to anybody else.
Alex: and then they just goes through. And in that case, like you, you've put in the work, and then it feels even more painful because, hey? I just did all this work for you. What the hell! Why did you just ghost me? So that's why it's important to keep everything on your schedule and not their schedule. If they ask for something you're not ready to give yet, or you haven't reached that point in your fundraising process to say, hey, I'm in the interest right now. I will send you, you know. There that you're asking for next month. When it gets to that point.
Alex: That's one way is by not over investing in any one investor. The other way is by having a large enough top of the funnel where a know just doesn't feel painful right like, why do people ghost each other and dating apps? Because they feel like the pool is infinite.
Alex: right? They're like, oh, well, you know, I can just like Swipe right for 30 min and have a bunch more dates. So that's why people are not accountable. Same exact thing here. The larger your top of the funnel, the less pain you're gonna feel when anyone person goes to you or says no or or whatever. So
Alex: 2 things do not invest too much time at the early stages into any one investor's asks.
Alex: and 2 have a large enough top of the funnel. Where you're not gonna feel bad if somebody just goes to
Alex: and that goes into this whole skipping the line thing. So we're gonna talk about timing and scheduling, but you should really organize your fundraisers into 3 phases. There should be a infra phase where you are meeting investors for the first time, and you should do all of them during that intro call phase. You should not do intro calls during the second or third phase of your fundraise
Alex: during the second phase, you are talking to partners and other stakeholders in the firm.
Alex: And during the third phase you are in the you know.
Alex: partner, call like decision
Alex: process.
Alex: If somebody's trying to skim the line like they're asking you for data early on just say, you know, happy to happy to send you all of that. I would love to first get another call with, you know.
Alex: one of your partners. And I'm gonna start those calls on date x
Alex: or or just say, let's schedule it for sometime like if you're doing with a May. Mais your intra call month, and they're like I would love for you to chat with my partner just schedule it for June. Right? Like you. You do not need to rush that call. They will take it either way. If if they're already, you know, they're saying that they will.
Alex: There are exceptions, of course, like, who gets to skip the line.
Alex: That's what's really your call like. If you really get a good live from somebody, and they are super excited. And they are saying like, Hey, this process is, we can give you a no or yes quickly. Maybe it's worth letting them kind of skip the line and just give you that yes or no and you know. Let it go out of order, but be very, very careful how many people you want
Alex: do this, because the more people skip the line the more. Again, you're investing in people who are very early in the process, and you have no guarantees that they're not gonna go through or give you an after the year one.
Alex: Okay, filling the top of the funnel. So
Alex: this is where the research comes in, you know, create a Google Sheet, E, easiest way of how to do rituals find everybody you want interest to create a shared Google sheet for everybody. You want interest to firm partner, angel, whatever reach out to your network, preferably entrepreneurs and founders, and just send them the Google Sheet and have them put their name on next to whoever they can choose to do.
Alex: I I found out to be the easiest way folks are like, you know. Hey? These does these 10 people.
Alex: My friend John can introduce me to these other 5 people like text starts to introduce me to and and so on. And
Alex: Another one is just something to keep in mind. We'll fill in top of the funnel when you're incoming from various channels. Linkedin, whatever you know, you posted that you just graduated text errors. You might get some Linkedin interest just
Alex: response to all the comms research. These people a little bit. Go on crunch base. I highly recommend the paid crunch based account. Or you know, you guys can get one for the group and share it. Do a little bit of research if they seem legit
Alex: respond to them and add them to your list of introductions. Then
Alex: that you're gonna go through
Alex: actually, our series of a investor cold outreach and Linkedin. So
Alex: there you go. Yeah, like, if I didn't respond to a cold message in Linkedin, we would have not found our Sydney Day lead.
Alex: Okay? So this part's important. All of this is happening before you start your like
Alex: before you start the actual fundraising before you start talking the phone to people.
Alex: Make sure this is probably the most important thing here. Make sure you have enough leads lined up again. If you're if you've done sales, or any sort of selling, the top of the funnel has to be large enough
Alex: in order for you to lose at least half
Alex: at every single step of the process. Let's say there's 3 to 4 phases in this process, and if you can't lose, if you can't cut this number by 2, 4 times and still get to a couple of investors at the end. Your top of the funnel is not big enough. Right? So if you're coming in with 50 people, top of the funnel.
Alex: second second stage are, gonna be a 25,
Alex: then 12, and then 6.
Alex: What is the chance that you're gonna get somebody to say? Yes, out of 6 people to get to that in your funnel, I would still say, maybe 10%
Alex: so too small of a funnel to definitely find someone who says, yes, you start with 100. You're gonna be in a slightly better place here like you're gonna have around, you know, you go 150, 25
Alex: 12. So you've got
Alex: you've got more than 10 people at the end of your funnel? I would.
Alex: after how many having is that so? 50, 2512. So after you cut it in half 3 times, I would want more than 10 people left over.
Alex: If there's you know, they've got them far enough, and there's a 10% chance of converting one of them.
Alex: 100 is a good number to shoot for a little aspirational like, you know, we did. 85, and it was enough.
Alex: But just just make sure it's big enough.
Alex: Then, once you you've got everybody. Send all the affordables at the same time.
Alex: your conversion to install call is not gonna be 100%, right? Like a lot of these forwardables are gonna fall in deaf ears. People are, gonna be busy. So expect the you know, less than 50% conversion from forwardable email to actual introduction.
Alex: If it's less than 50, you're probably reaching out to wrong people. So I would stop here.
Alex: Go fill your top of the funnel again
Alex: and and try them
Alex: So at this point you can still kind of go back right. You haven't done anything for calls yet. You let's say you've got 100 forwardables, and you get 20 people to respond
Alex: like, clearly, there's something wrong with your approach. That's not enough. People going into kind of the next phase of things, and I would not continue the process unless until you get as many people as you need in that second stage of the process. Just someone hold off right? You just be like, hey? I'm gonna start intro calls like
Alex: a month from now, or or do you answer? Call with them and and and then tell them you're gonna step back in a month from now. That's okay, too.
Alex: yep. So you can start digging into calls as a responses. Come in, but be sure you have enough people opt in before you move to the next step.
Alex: Once you've got
Alex: 50 to 100, however many you think you need. Lined up at this point, you can proceed. But before you get to that point I highly advise against not
Alex: proceeding to the to the next stage, because you are going to likely end up in a scenario where you do a ton of work and
Alex: potentially never find a lead
Alex: cool. So again, this is for rounds where you do prefer a lead investor. So something like something, typically.
Alex: you know over
Alex: over 2 to 3 volume.
Alex: Again. This is sales funnel easier. If you've got a good top of the funnel, your job is to find a lead first. Anybody who says I am.
Alex: you know I happy to do a follow on investment. Say, awesome. Thank you. We'll get that to find a lead. Don't spend time on it. So if you're looking for a lead, keep looking for the lead. Don't divert your time and effort into people who are following investors or cannot lead around. Do focus on the lead first, and make sure you find that before you move on.
Alex: Okay.
Alex: cool. So
Alex: now that you've got your whole top of the funnel ready Intro calls lined up.
Alex: What do these calls look like? So something to know about. Intro calls. So 50 to 100 total expect about a 50% conversion ratio. A single month. You can do 3 to 5 calls a day for 20 days
Alex: so you can knock out. You can knock out a hundred calls in a month.
Alex: It's an intro call no pitch deck. You're getting to know the person you're asking them about the fund. They're asking you about your company, your story, your your progress. It's good to have a partner, but it's not necessary. I know a lot of people say, Hey, you're fundraising. If you can't get a partner on the first call with your back founder, or something like that. Totally, not true. I don't.
Alex: Maybe probably 60% of the time we did not have a fund partner in the first call.
Alex: You know, Vps and associates have a job for a reason like they are literally filtering folks for the partner, because the partner does not have time to take every single intro call
Alex: cool. So during the call, what are you talking about? Ask them to give you their fun. Introduction first, right?
Alex: They do this fairly quickly, that's all you're about to find. Have some, perhaps some
Alex: kind of standard questions ready for them. What is your investment? Thesis? Do you focus on B, 2 B or DC, what's your typical chips? Check size? What does typical process look like? How many calls do we do until the final parking call,
Alex: don't spend more than 10 min on this.
Alex: Then run through your company story again no more than 10 min. These calls are only 30 min total. So you want to leave time for questions. This is why I hate
Alex: pitching it back because it usually takes a way too long to go through your whole pitch.
Alex: So you know, not more than 20 min on both sides of introduction, and then 10 min of questions you can use your deck when answering questions, if it's if it's helpful. And then at the end of the call, we didn't do this, but I found this. I I started doing this later in the process. Ask them how. Ask them what they thought and how excited this was for them, and whether they're whether they think
Alex: when they share this with the team, the team is gonna want to talk to you. A lot of folks will just tell you right if they said
Alex: they don't think this is a fit. If they don't think it's exciting a lot of times their natural responses is just to say Thank you and not give you any feedback. So if you want feedback, just ask for it, and a lot of folks will just. We'll just tell you straight up like, Hey, this is not fit. We're looking for companies that are, you know, slightly more like we hate hardware or something right? That's an easy one, or we're looking for companies at a later stage. That's fine, but easy for you. You cross them off the list and you keep going.
Alex: and then finally ask them, when are they gonna get back to the next steps?
Alex: Should be no more than a week. They hold their partner meetings weekly, so if they do not get back to you within a week again single reminder to get back to you and then keep going.
Alex: Actually, sorry guys, let me hook up my laptop so it doesn't die. Give me 2 s.
Lilliana Robinson: Do you guys have any questions?
David Akinyemi: No questions, but I love the the timeline in the end about like it should be no more than one week like that's really good, helpful information to keep in mind when going through this process.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, one reminder and then move on. But you have to be in the position to move on like Alex said, that's key, because it's easier said than done, I promise you. Once you're raising, it's gonna be very hard to move on and not try to get that one investor that you sent so much to.
Ali Armour - ClubReq: I have a question around the email forwardable that you send ahead of time. I know you mentioned doing kind of like a one pager. We're also gonna have our videos hopefully from the techstores. Demo day.
Ali Armour - ClubReq: what are your thoughts on like a one pager versus a video? Or should we do both. Just depending on what the audience member kind of wants to process.
Alex: A video is good a lot of times. They won't have time to watch your video so they'll look at the deck anyway. If you if you have like a super short 1 min video totally cool, send it.
Ali Armour - ClubReq: Okay. Awesome.
Felipe - Gohaus: Alex. One question quickly. You were in charge of this process, and you were doing nothing else than this. As your job is, this require 100%
Felipe - Gohaus: of your
Felipe - Gohaus: time or the funder time.
Alex: So the
Alex: the round after techstars. I was not doing this 100% of the time, and that was a mistake. So I I should have been doing it 100% of the time, because it it took longer than necessary, because I was also multi 1,000
Alex: and working on companies and stuff
Alex: but but if you are
Alex: if you are creating like a 3 month schedule, or you want to stick to it, and you're doing, you know, a hundred info calls like you're gonna have to be doing it. 100% of the time.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So on those lines. Alex den told us to have a builder and a seller in our company, so Michael Founder is going to be the seller. I'm gonna be the builder. I'm be being the builder.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Do you think it's realistic to split this between being builder and being a fundraiser, or or should I have a CTO. Co. Founder? Who's the builder and me be the fundraiser.
Alex: I was also the builder, and that's that's why. It was, you know, our first route, and I kind of split the job. It would be good if there was at least another engineer or somebody who can take over some of some of that work.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Okay. Thanks.
Felipe - Gohaus: And Alex. Just one more thing taking and like for what is happening today with the market of the last year is is this
Felipe - Gohaus: process.
Felipe - Gohaus: Do you think this? There's something changing in this process? The length of the process, the the amount of
Felipe - Gohaus: of the final of the amount of
Felipe - Gohaus: best of that you had to go look for today. I was hearing with a friend that he was talking with 200 people.
Felipe - Gohaus: But maybe now you need to go to 400 people because of kind of
Felipe - Gohaus: what's been happening
Felipe - Gohaus: with venture capital and investment.
Alex: I think if you were, you know, if if you talk to 100 people and you can't raise, you should just
Alex: kind of pause for a little while and work in the company a little bit further. Because I think I I think 100 people should be enough. If you don't have enough signal for somebody to be interested. And you've talked to 100 people. It's probably something about the way that your
Alex: E, either what you're accompl, what you've accomplished, or the way that you're telling the story that's turning people off. So I would
Alex: just kind of the back we recollect yourself through the process and see what they're looking for. So you have a better idea of where you need to be
Alex: for that sort of race.
Kevin: Yeah, Alex, I I have a question to. Just one other question. When you are raising your round after techstars. Were you looking at other comparables in your industry for that round? Or were you raising, just based off of your own needs?
Alex: Hey? Sorry, guys, I'm gonna I think I've got a connection issue give me one. Sec. Me? Just
Alex: why are we connecting here?
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, while we're waiting. I hope you guys can see the whole purpose of our demo day format because Alex has hit on almost every single piece. So the QA, you guys are, gonna be comfortable talking about your business, the
Lilliana Robinson: video, you're gonna be able to send. So
Lilliana Robinson: everything is for a purpose to help you fundraise in the future.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, yeah.
Alex: I'm back. Can you? Can you guys hear me?
Alex: Okay, awesome and sorry. Was there? What was your question.
Kevin: Yeah. So I was just saying that when you are raising around after tech stars, were you looking sort of as a barometer with comparables in your industry.
Kevin: Based on the stage that you were at for the raise versus like just raising based on your own needs for what you needed at that time.
Alex: We just kind of raise on our own for our own needs. We weren't necessarily like trying to get the highest valuation. You know, we just chose a number that seemed reasonable to us.
Alex: both serve both accountable
Alex: and evaluation goal where we were comfortable, taking that amount of dilution we weren't really comparing ourselves to other companies out of stage.
Kevin: Pull.
Felipe - Gohaus: Alex.
Alex: So let me share my screen again. Here.
Felipe - Gohaus: Alex, would you mind commenting like, what are the key mistake that you have made because you are already in series? A
Felipe - Gohaus: so you have been through a lot.
Felipe - Gohaus: So what? What do you think are the key
Felipe - Gohaus: things that you wouldn't do today? Like, where where is? Where are the those
Felipe - Gohaus: key mistakes that you can tell us about.
Alex: Yeah. So the
Alex: the series, A was the first round where
Alex: we really really ran a proper process with, you know, control timing and a good top of the funnel.
Alex: and
Alex: the main mistake I made was in previous rounds for the early rounds, because I think we would have learned a lot if we had done that correctly in the early rounds. We just kind of did the whole, you know. Ad hoc, raise the state
Alex: here, raise and say there, and try to collect it off. Monday.
Alex: Can you guys hear me? Or is my connection
Alex: breaking up again?
Lilliana Robinson: It broke up a little bit. But we can still hear you.
Lilliana Robinson: Alex. Why don't you turn on like.
Alex: Yeah. Just let me know if.
Lilliana Robinson: Just turn off your video. We don't. We don't.
Alex: Yep, thank you.
Alex: Awesome
Alex: if there's no more call questions here. So
Alex: after the first call, you know, send your thank you. Email and the teaser deck if you didn't originally send the teaser back in the forwardable this way, they have something visual to share with the rest of the partners.
Alex: Remind them that you expect a follow up
Alex: and you know, follow the
Alex: follow the one or 2 type, rule and then we prioritize them in your database, like whatever you use for your master database we prioritize them based on
Alex: the buy you got from them. How excited they were. If they actually give you some feedback. Use that to kind of assign them a priority level of like interested, you know, medium interest. Or now they're interested.
Alex: I think it's always good to keep this updated sorted list of investors based on how interested they are.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Okay, so, Alex.
Alex: Just one, but.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Said.
Alex: Hmm.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Alex, if you don't mind it, because you were breaking up a lot before. If you can reiterate on the previous question about you said it. You you guys did a lot of too many saves, and how would you do it differently instead, like, what will be a structure that you will recommend?
Alex: As far as the saves goes. I mean it. It hurt us a little bit on the dilution side, but honestly.
Alex: it wasn't too bad. It saves
Alex: the 6 also helped us because we were able to do a you know, more flexible process before we knew how to do proper fundraising through sales.
Alex: so I wouldn't say it was all bad. It was just that we kind of pay for it and dilution a little bit later. If I was to do things again, I would probably not raise more than one again, not counting the textures or pretext or stuff. I probably not raise more than once they found. So do safe round and then price round right after.
Alex: Okay,
Alex: can you guys still hear me?
Alex: Yep.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Yes.
Alex: Cool so you had your intro call. Second call should be with a partner.
Alex: If
Alex: you know, if you get an email saying that, like the associate or the Vp. Or somebody wants to do a second call and just ask them nicely to have a partner present.
Alex: It's a perfectly reasonable request.
Alex: And they should be able to do it. So
Alex: do try to have a partner on the conversation. Because the faster you get a partner on a call the faster they're gonna give you either. Yes, you know, proceed or no, because
Alex: otherwise you're playing broken telephone, and everything you say, has to be then communicated to the partner by this other person. Who's gonna they're gonna mess it up.
Alex: So try to have the partner present on a second call. You want 20 to 50 leads at this point again, assume 50% conversion.
Alex: If you have a month, that's one to do one to 2 per day for 20 days, like.
Alex: at this point you could probably do a little bit of work on the side.
Alex: Make sure that
Alex: Yeah. And so during the call again, you don't really need to use your deck. The partner's gonna have a lot of the same questions as the associate did. But they're gonna dig deeper. They're gonna you know. You're gonna tell them the story.
Alex: and then you give 20 min for questions because the partner is, gonna dig a lot deeper into details. Economics you know your cohorts retention all the details of your business. So most of this should be partner asking questions and you giving them good responses.
Alex: and then also make sure to leave, you know. Have some good questions for the partner as well.
Alex: so
Alex: you know. Ask them how they typically work with companies. What are some of the things that
Alex: kind of stands out of other fund and etc, etc?
Alex: they may ask for some data at this point.
Alex: if not
Alex: So
Alex: typically at this point they'll say, like, Hey, do you have a you know what are your cohorts? Look like? And you can say, Hey, you know we've got a cohort analysis that we can share with you.
Alex: You should know the High level numbers we
Alex: at this point, if they're not asking for data.
Alex: but they're kind of saying like, Hey, we'll get back to you, just you can go ahead and ask them, what data do you need to feel more comfortable or convinced? About our company? And typically they'll just send you an email and say, Here, here are. Here's what a data room would look like that we would like to see. Here's the data that we want to see just because they send you stuff in. This list of stuff they want to see doesn't mean to give them all of it. But it's good to have them say, like, this is the data that we want.
Alex: At the end of the call is exactly the same thing. Ask them for feedback. Ask them how exciting this opportunity is to them, and
Alex: ask them when they're gonna follow up with you, and if they add, if they send you a date request.
Alex: You can send that along, you know, after the call.
Alex: Essentially, you know. Send them a thank you. Email.
Alex: send them the I don't think you need the teaser that can hear anymore. Assuming they ask for some data, send them whatever data that they asked for, and if it's not easy to pull for you, do not send them to them. Like, if you're gonna spend 3 days with your like finance person trying to get this data. Just say, sorry we don't have this right now. Happy to send it later. Here's some off the shelf data that we have.
Alex: And again, same same same story, reprior reprioritize enough after the call, based on how excited they were, you know. Did they ask for some data? What what do they say? As far as feedback goes? What do they think.
Alejandra Guillen: Alex. This is Sally again. At at this point you still haven't walked them through your financial model right like that's not something that's still happening in these calls.
Alex: Yeah. So this is the point where they might ask for it. So they'll say, like, Hey, we, as part of their data request. They're gonna say, we wanna see your historical financials, your projections, and like your cohort analysis. And at this point, instead of
Alex: you know, so sending financials is fine sending your cohort. Analysis is fine. You know how to read all of that stuff. Instead of a model, I would say, either send them a video recording of you going through the model. Or say, I'm happy to walk you through the model on a call.
Alex: because if you just send in the model. They're not likely gonna know how to use it, and and get what they need out of it. So that's why recording is great.
Alejandra Guillen: so that would be the next call, then the the third call
Alejandra Guillen: that.
Alex: Yeah, yeah, they've looked at your data now and then. They're gonna ask some questions on the third call about the stuff that they saw in their data.
Alejandra Guillen: Perfect thanks.
Alex: So let's
Alex: yep. Let's scroll down to.
Lilliana Robinson: Alex, with 2 min left. Do you want to give any closing thoughts, or maybe take like one final question.
Alex: So if you guys can go over by a couple of minutes, I can probably wrap this up. This is probably the last piece on him.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Alex: Up to you guys.
Lilliana Robinson: So so, okay, so anyone who needs to drop you can watch the past few minutes on the recording. But we'll keep going.
Alex: So third or fourth call it depends. Sometimes you do. 2 calls where you dig into data metrics. Again, expect about a expect about a 25% conversion here. It's probably gonna be lower than the previous ones, because now they've seen all the details, they've kind of looked under the hood. And a lot more people are gonna drop off.
Alex: You want.
Alex: You are around 10 to 20 people left at this point. You, you're doing. Maybe one call every few days walking people through data and not answering questions about it.
Alex: During the call. You're mostly talking about your data projections. Explaining why you are projecting things the way you are explaining your you know, acquisition strategy where you're like wiser model the way it is
Alex: and once you think that you've answered enough questions, or once they feel like they've asked enough
Alex: again. They're gonna say, Hey, we'll get back to you, but you should be very specific asking them, what if they keep like
Alex: they do 2 calls where you're talking about data, you really need to ask the question.
Alex: where do we need to be in order to get some final market meeting? Because you you do not want to spend all your time, this back and forth on your data. And they keep asking for more data. They they can do this right. They can keep asking you for customer reviews they can ask you for, like whatever stuff that's hard to get. You really want do not want to drag this out past 2 calls, so they have not
Alex: gotten what they need across 2 data requests. You basically just say, like, you know, I I think I've given you enough at this point to make a decision. If you guys would like to do a final partner call, that's great. If not, then I understand. We're gonna move forward with our other investors.
Alex: Because the this data back and forth can literally go on forever. They can just keep asking for more stuff. And you do not want to keep wasting your time.
Alex: So again, after the call, thank you. Email, with any other data to ask for.
Alex: reprioritize them and
Alex: try to keep the the whole data back and forth to a maximum of 2 calls.
Alex: Follow up like, I said, repeat a maximum of 2 times. After 2 of these asked for the partner meeting. If they refuse and run, that's basically a no
Alex: and like like you've got, if you've got them here. Congratulations. If you've gotten to more than one of these. That's amazing. It would be awesome if you get 3 to 5 partner calls. This is where the whole partnership gets on the call, and you get to pitch to all the partners.
Alex: you know, expect about a 25% conversion to a term sheet at this point. Because they they have. They have now invested the time, and the whole partnership believes that this this may be a good idea.
Alex: And this is where you're going to need to do some more prep before calling this happens. So you want a full.
Alex: presentable deck with reference slides that address. Common questions. Also remember that the partner you initially spoke to is now on your side, and his reputation is sort of on the line because they're trying to push this deal over the line, and they need to convince the rest of their partners that you are worth betting on for the fund. So use them as a defined date flip from. You need to convince them
Alex: to use them to convince everybody else. Ask them about all the partners that are gonna be on the call. Ask them what questions they're gonna ask. This is a bit of a mental shift. But at this, before this call
Alex: you should be working side by side with the partner that got you to to this point, and ask them anything that will give you an upper hand when presenting to the partnership like, who are these people? What is their background? What sort of questions they like to ask? What are the concerns among the team about our company get as much out of them as as you can, and they will be happy to help you at this point, because they're sort of.
Alex: They're already. They've already made the decision to, you know. Pitch you to the rest of the partners.
Alex: And if you're pitching with co-founders, make sure you do the whole. Make sure you practice. Do the drive rounds together, have people, you know, challenge your assumptions
Alex: and create slides that answer her questions.
Alex: So this is where you know you're at this point you're ready to present. Your deck is ready with answers to common questions, and your
Alex: gonna get on the call. All the partners are gonna be there right? You're gonna have, like whatever 15 people or something signed onto this call. It's a little nerve wracking or it may be in person if they ask the account. Person.
Alex: One thing you need to remember is that most partners are not well, educator in your business. And they are not as educated as the partner you have been pitching to, so just assume they know nothing.
Alex: And the goal is not for you to finish your presentation. This is where
Alex: I think a lot of people get into the wrong mindset of like. If I don't finish my deck.
Alex: They're not gonna be interested.
Alex: The goal is to answer their questions. So let them interrupt you and tell them upfront that, hey? It's totally fine. If you guys interrupt me, I've got to answer your questions
Alex: as my priority and jump around the deck, so let them ask you questions. Jump around your deck to answer those questions. In fact, if you if you finish your presentation, they were probably not interested enough to ask questions throughout your presentation. So make it very clear that their questions are priority for you and not try to finish it back.
Alex: and yeah, again, if you finish the presentation. There's a lot of questions. Either they felt uncomfortable asking, or they just didn't have anything to ask, which means they were just not interested enough so.
Lilliana Robinson: Let me add there, because
Lilliana Robinson: for rising stars, which is like Neil and Sophie and my like small fund our small precinct fund. I promise you. There are so many people that come and pitch, and because they're not comfortable talking about their business like off script, or like not with the deck. They actually won't
Lilliana Robinson: talk to us until they've gotten through the presentation. That is not helpful, because we have questions that they could have answered and gotten rid of our hesitations. But instead, they're just going through their deck. And the main reason is really like
Lilliana Robinson: they're not comfortable talking off the cuff. So what Alex is saying is a skill that you guys need to home and practice. You do not need to be glued to what what becomes like a security blanket of your deck in your pitch. Sometimes you won't even finish it, because they're going to take it in a different direction. But that's what matters is just getting rid of all of their hesitations, not getting through what you think you need to get through. So I just want to double click on what Alex is saying.
Alex: Yeah 100%. And this is exactly why I don't use ducks in any of the rest of the process. Because if you, if you're comfortable, having an actual conversation and answering questions as they come. You're not gonna be glued to your deck like the deck is the last thing that you built for all of this. So it's just it's just a helpful way to kind of structure your presentation. But you're mainly using the duck to answer questions and jumping around.
Alex: You should not be glued to its sequence or finishing it, or anything like that. It's it's really just an aid for you to get questions answered.
Alex: I mean, this is, gonna be pretty easy after the call. If you just reach out to the partner and ask them how it went. But you should just call them right after the board meeting. They're gonna spend some time, whatever talking to each other. Just call them text, text the person an hourly or email them and ask, Hey, how do you think they want? They should give you their honest opinion. There. There's no reason for them to kind of, you know. Kind of drag things out here, because it's either yes or no.
Alex: Yeah. And if they've been a follow up. It's likely a no, but you can send them a reminder and ask how things went. Real quick on sub sheets.
Alex: I
Jennifer Loh: Already over.
Alex: Morning.
Alex: Sorry any questions on.
Lilliana Robinson: I think I think someone accidentally unmuted. No questions.
Jennifer Loh: Oh, I have a question. Sorry.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, sorry, Jennifer. I thought I thought you had said something accidentally.
Jennifer Loh: No. So going back to that, follow up where you had said, like, you know, if they're not interested, and they don't reply to you move on. What if they actually do say like, Hey, I'm super interested. This is right up my alley. This is in my thesis and like, and you follow up with them, and they don't follow up with you. Do you still like? Follow up with them beyond one to 2 reminders like.
Jennifer Loh: I guess, like, how like.
Jennifer Loh: how long should you keep? And a potentially interested investor in in your pipeline and keep them warm.
Alex: Yeah, I mean, once it's a reminder is fine, and if they don't answer, just just move on. You can always come back to them like, let's say you find a lead, and you need to follow on, and musters for the round you you can always come back to them and say, like, Hey, really find the lead. But like, if you're interested in following on something, they just need a little bit more signal like you have a
Alex: you have a well known lead, and that's enough signal to push them over the edge and kind of move quickly. But I was just not relying on on doing the lead search.
Jennifer Loh: Okay.
Alex: Okay, cool. So the term sheet part. So this is where you know you're given a term sheet you do want a lawyer at this point term sheet is gonna have some back and forth on it, some redlining
Alex: they're gonna or first of all, congrats. If you got a term sheet, even if you get more than one. That's fantastic. But a term sheet doesn't give you much time to respond to it. So they're gonna give you one to 2 weeks, Max, to get a Fmo. Sometimes they'll give you like 3 days, which is super annoying.
Alex: But if you expect more than one turkey to come in.
Alex: Make sure that
Alex: like make sure that they know like if they they put a 3 3 day deadline on it. Be like sorry we have 3 more partner meetings and I'm like you have to give me at least 2 weeks
Alex: to give it a response.
Alex: They can be. They can be assholes about it, you know, and not give you that time. But most of them aren't gonna do that because yes, they don't wanna compete with other offers. But they've already put them put in a ton of work. It would be silly for them not to at least give you an offer
Alex: and and give you a chance to accept it.
Alex: So
Alex: the term sheet again.
Alex: You can kind of drag it out a little bit, but having your lawyer mark up the term sheet, or kind of go back and forth on
Alex: go back and forth on valuation, and drag things out until the other time sheets come in. This is where there's a little, a little bit of finesse involved. We did not have this problem. So we just got one term sheet, and then we just have to say yes or no. So they don't really have to deal with the situation. But they're ways to kind of artificially as long as they think that the redlining and the back and forth is progressing. They're not gonna force that deadline on you.
Alex: but if you you know, if you have 2 term sheets and you want to
Alex: kind of negotiated putting together each other you can work with your lawyer on how best to do it, or or founders that's done that before
Alex: and then finally, you sign a term sheet. This is where the term sheet is very high level. It's like 3 pages. These the the round, the price round docs are like 100 pages, right. So that term sheet gets converted to very, very detailed legal document of exactly
Alex: very, very precise terms that are not disclosed in the term sheet.
Alex: Things about board
Alex: work, consistency and and so on. So this is also one diligence start. This is where they're gonna actually go through all of your stuff. Make sure you know your company is incorporated correctly. Make sure that you have all of your employees legally employed, and all of your all of your stuff has been done correctly.
Alex: you know. 4, 9 a's, or any sort of option agreements.
Alex: So you have the contract that you said you have. So this can take a month easily. So make sure that you have a good lawyer and make sure that you have put together at this point a detailed data room of everything they ask for. They're gonna send you a whole checklist of stuff to have and you and your team should
Alex: make sure that everything is there?
Alex: Alex questions.
Lilliana Robinson: From the chat.
Lilliana Robinson: For what kind of round do you need a lawyer they've raised so far without one. Would they need one for an unpro unpriced post. Demo day round, like a safe round.
Alex: Do you need a lawyer for safety? You should still have a lawyer. It doesn't have to be an expensive lawyer, just like.
Alex: have a fairly cheap order to. At least, if if people are investing on just basic unmodified safes, you probably don't need aware.
Alex: If people are investing on anything that is customized on the safe like any extra terms that they're asking for. You really do want to, lawyer to look at it.
Alex: Again. They don't have to be expensive. We can do like 200 bucks an hour, not 1,500 bucks an hour.
Alex: But it's worth it like, otherwise you may, you may regret it later, when
Alex: you know something you've thought like, one thing actually needs something else.
Alex: But the nice thing here is, once you have the term sheet, you can now fill the rest of the round, and you can set the terms to everybody who said maybe or yes, after you find the lead, and kind of finish that conversation about, and try to get the rest of the round filled. If if the lead that uncovered the whole check sales.
Alex: and you can be doing that during the deletions process.
Lilliana Robinson: Nelson.
Nelson Mitchell: Yeah, thanks, Alex. I was curious. If you could give us a ballpark on how much you spent in legal fees under series a just like rough estimate, and whether your
Nelson Mitchell: your investors made you put the bill for your legal their legal fees, because I've heard that's done quite a bit.
Alex: Yeah, so we spent very little money on our safe rounds we got an age where a a couple custom safes where it was like in the single digit, thousands of dollars like maybe once 2,000. The series A was very expensive for us. It was about 100 k. And the reason is because we had
Alex: 3 rounds of stacked safes. We had like 65 safes that converted in our series a
Alex: and so
Alex: it was about 50 k. From our end, and about 50 k. From the investors admin. And yes, it was customary to cover the investors legal costs. I I no idea how this custom came about, but the company pays out of the same money that they're giving you. So
Alex: and yeah, I mean, this is where that other piece about safe conversion it. It gets complex, especially when there's a lot of saves on different terms. And lawyers spent like a lot of hours for making sure the camp table is is correctly done.
Alex: Oh, it's like a second piece that I forgot about is, we had 2 clothings, and the reason for that is that we had a syndicate we had launch
Alex: and launch can't give us a
Alex: exact number of what their following investment is until they run the whole syndicate process which can take
Alex: takes over a month.
Alex: So instead of waiting for launch to do that to collect their interest. We just did a first closing with the lead investor.
Alex: and then we, their second closing, would launch, and any kind of lagging investors along with them. So because of the 2 closings.
Alex: because we have the syndicate involved that takes over a month to
Alex: gather their Parada interest.
Alex: We had to put more legal bills, and we have to break it up into closing stuff.
Alex: As far as filling around with extra investors, you know. Really, all you need is your term sheet wiring instructions, some data room. If they ask for it, most of them won't even care, because they'll assume your lead the due diligence. So really, y'all are looking for the terms.
Alex: As far as who, you know, who can fill these rounds again. Same thing, family offices, small funds, angels, syndicates.
Alex: You can even use graph funding if you really want to. Just one thing to know that
Alex: if you do less than 1.2 million on crowdfunding. You do not need a financial lotter
Alex: if you do. Between 1.2 to 5 million and crowdfunding, we do need financial audits with the actual
Alex: audit from so.
Jennifer Loh: Traditional venture. Capital firms don't like seeing crowdsourcing.
Jennifer Loh: Have you heard anything about that?
Alex: I mean, sure they don't like it, but mainly I think they don't like it, because you need to share your financials with the world like you need to actually share them with sec. And they're going to be public for anyone who search for searches for them. But if you do.
Alex: I'm not sure with the small around, like the 1.2 million around. If you have to share your financials with Sec or not, need to double check on that. But like the larger rounds, like the 5 million refunders, you need 2 years of auto financials that live online forever.
Alex: so that they're always going to be out there.
Jennifer Loh: That's good to know.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: What's the standard? Is he not refundable like, once you get these funding? That's not not if, say you're building your own hardware. What is the standard is like? You can tell the people who fund you that is not refundable.
Alex: Sorry. What do you mean by not refundable.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: In other words, if you you know, if you're selling a hardware, and then either the hardware gets delayed. It's not in 6 months is 9, 12 months, or it never gets billed. For whatever reason do you have liability as a company? Or what is is that a standard for that like. Do you need to return the money to the people who funded your crowdfunding campaign?
Alex: Oh, you're talking about just crowdfunding care. This is not Kickstarter. No, no, they the crowdfunding like we funder and stuff. They must have the exact same instrument that was used for the whole round. So if you use the save, they must not save if you use. If you had a price round, they will be part of that price round. So exactly the same terms as would the rest of your investors. There's no, there's no special terms here.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Gotcha. But a kick started will be a different story, right? And that's.
Alex: Something like.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Look into it? Yeah.
Alex: Okay, Kickstarter. Kickstarter is not an investment. It's a pre order for goods. So if you do not ship those goods, then I think you. I think you're liable for returning the money.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: May
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: thank you.
Chloe Lannert: So north.
Alex: sorry. Go ahead.
Samarth Gupta: Sorry I was muted. Thanks. Ploy, hey, Alex, thank you so much for this. This has been super helpful.
Samarth Gupta: I have a quick question on.
Samarth Gupta: So when you guys were first raising your precede
Samarth Gupta: right? You know, right after techstars.
Samarth Gupta: How do you value your business like, did you guys have revenue like, how did you come up with your free money valuation? Or did you let investors kind of drive that.
Alex: It's a good question. So
Alex: I was actually good gonna run through that real quick. So he here's what a typical path looks like.
Alex: You know, precede 500 K to a million 3 to 8 million post money. Valuation is is fine this implies less than 12 and a half percent delusion.
Alex: Then your feet round, you know, maybe a one to 3 million dollar round again. You want a slightly higher validation. So 8 to 25 is good. Le again, less than 12 and a half delusion. So across these 2 seed rounds you're trying to get to under 25% delusion. Total.
Alex: Then you have your series. A, and you you know you're raising 5 to 10 million. Not sure what series are these days? But let's say it's 5 to 7 million
Alex: good. If you have about a 25 to 50 million valuation, which applies less than 20% dilution.
Alex: And that's a total devolution of about 45%. And I think if you can keep her dilution to under 50%
Alex: after your series, A, you're in
Alex: decent spot like you're not amazing, but also not that. That you're still
Alex: th. The owner of the the founders probably still have, like, you know, 30 to 40% of
Alex: common shares at this point.
Alex: It's. And then
Alex: this is where most of the dilution happens. It happens during these 3 routes when you start getting to series B and on typically dilution is, I wouldn't say like 10% or less like, if your company's gotten to that point. And there's continuing to grow dilution. And further rounds is gonna go.
Alex: is typically going to be under 15 or under 10%. So the further you go out the left solution, you see. And that's why you see, some of these companies raise, like.
Alex: you know, a hundred 1 million at a
Alex: 1.5 billion dollars valuation.
Alex: That implies like a 7% revolution.
Alex: So if if you're going fast, if you're getting to your series, Bcd, typically, the routine becomes a lot less relevant to that point because you'll you'll have more leverage and more investors want to give you money.
Alex: So the key is to keep reduction as low as possible during these 3 stages.
Alex: we'll talk about boards in a second. But this was our path. It was a little different, but we took. We had a pre seed so this was like Texas and angels about 350 k. At a
Alex: 3 and 4 million caps. So 3 million cap from techstars, 4 million cap from our other angel investors.
Alex: That was about 6% dilution total.
Alex: then we get a safe round
Alex: but 2 million at a 8 to 9 valuation. The
Alex: one of the safes was out of 9 because of random reason. But we took about 16% delusion there
Alex: and then we had a I guess this was my lesson learned here. Fight to raise Jersey was not organized enough.
Alex: You know we were like 6 months in and still didn't have the 10 million I was shooting for. But we were raising it on safes, and I just decided to, you know. Call it a day. Take whatever money
Alex: that people committed. But it was at a fairly big valuation markup.
Alex: Right? So this, this 4 million was at a 60 million post money. So very little dilution of that money so felt like there's no point not to take it at that point.
Alex: And then finally the series. They came around. At that point we were what about 27%
Alex: subduction. We took another 25.
Alex: So total dilution of about 50% or 54% across
Alex: these rounds. But our series, A was larger than a typical series a around. So you know, 54% solution.
Alex: Think in Chicago this was over 30 million dollars raised.
Alex: You know, typical surveys are probably closer to like 10 to 15
Alex: so we figured that this was a this was a good enough deal for the amount of money that we raised.
Alex: A. And again, this is gonna this is gonna kind of vary from company to company, like, sure, we could have optimized things. Sure, we could have raised that higher valuations. But honestly, early on what matters is that you get the cash.
Alex: Try not to raise a ton at very low valuations. It just hurts you like I wouldn't raise a million at a 4 million cap. You're like, you're just giving away 25% of the company. It makes no sense.
Alex: When you start raising more than a million dollars, you probably want to be closer to like a 1010,000,000 cap
Alex: to keep that direction in check.
Alex: So a good rule of thumb, you know. Post Series A, under 50 dilution, unless you raise a really big round, in which case, you know, we're willing to sacrifice that extra 5
Alex: and if we're gonna just make a different call on you guys, So
Alex: again, these are all just rules of thumb.
Alex: The final thing is boards.
Alex: So you do want to maintain control.
Alex: After series a I know that sometimes during seed rounds people ask for board seats your series. A muster is definitely gonna ask you for a board seat unless you're really really lucky.
Alex: And so if you have a single founder you
Alex: a hundred percent do not want to give away any board seeds before you're series.
Alex: If you were 2 founders, I would still not give away any board seats prior to Saturday, so we did not have any board members other than me and Deb
Alex: up until our series A, at which point we built a 5 person board, so it's myself. Then
Alex: are there a lead? And then 2 independent board members?
Alex: this is going to be important when it comes to future rounds. So
Alex: don't take this lightly. You really do want to talk to your lawyer and maintain
Alex: company control after we seriously, because
Alex: you really should be making the decisions at this point. Even if you disagree with the board
Alex: the problem with losing board control after series a. You're still really early, you are gonna make mistakes. And you do not want the board to say, you know, we don't like how you're how you're doing. We're we're gonna like, replace your CEO at the Series 8 stage. It's gonna kill the company and it's
Alex: it's it's really painful. When it happens that early in the evolution of his life.
Alex: So talk to your counsel. Figure out how to maintain word control.
Alex: they will offer.
Alex: There's one detail like a lot of times when you
Alex: we need to negotiate 4 seats.
Alex: They'll say that we will designate a board seat for the CEO.
Alex: This is not a good idea, because if they replace you as a if if you get demoted from CEO to some other position, you will lose your board seat. You do not want that to happen. So there's few founders. What are you, CEO? What is one of you? Or Cfo stick to using common board seats, meaning that you just have common shareholder board seats, and do not tie them to any titles. So this means that even if you use your you know you replace yourself. A CEO, you still get to maintain your board seat.
Alex: there! There's a ton of details here. It's you know, who appoints independent board members. This is all stuff you should talk
Alex: through with your lawyer, and really not skimp on the details here. It will come back to bite you. If you ever get into any sort of swabble with your investors.
Alex: You can also remove senior lusters from the board and replace them with series. A musters perfectly okay, like, Hey, you get one of your early senior rusters on the board you get to practice board dynamics with them, and then you get a big series, a check, and it's perfectly okay to ask them the the early stage to kind of slip down to your board observer still participate, but not actually hold the board seat
Alex: and give that up to one of your new investors.
Alex: Huh!
Chloe Lannert: We've got a question in the chat from a little bit ago. Would you be able to give one or 2 of the most common, hard hitting questions you've seen from partner conversations
Chloe Lannert: from a few minutes ago, going back to the later meetings.
Alex: Hardly any questions from Archer conversations. They typically, I mean, they'll ask questions and definitely wanna answer them
Alex: in a way that makes people think like you thought about it. You definitely don't want to brush things off like when they ask about competition. You shouldn't say, Oh, that's not a problem like Apple's not gonna take our business, whatever.
Alex: but nothing. Nothing pops out as like we were caught off guard by somebody's question. And that's that's kind of how you wanted to be at that point.
Alex: like you having gone through, you know, talking to a hundred investors, you really should have seen all the questions.
Alex: that you're going to see
Alex: with the partners. You do want to spend more time
Alex: just making sure that you explain to them and answer their question as well. But you really shouldn't be surprised by their questions at that point.
Chloe Lannert: Absolutely. Thank you.
Alex: Cool any other questions on, you know. Valuations? Probably turn my video back on valuations board members. Any of this stuff.
Chloe Lannert: Looks like we're good.
Alex: Awesome. Well, that is it.
Alex: Thank you, guys. I hope this was helpful.
Alex: I'll I'll send around
Alex: a Pdf that you know you're free to use. That has all of the stuff in there, all the links
Alex: and feel free to ping me through.
Alex: you know. Either shoot me an email, or or anywhere else that you prefer. If you've got any questions
Alex: Happy to answer and happy to do some one on one calls and kind of help you out with your fundraise when the time comes.
Chloe Lannert: Thank you so much. This is awesome. Really, really appreciate you coming to chat with us.
Alex: Awesome. Thank you. Guys, have a good one.
Chloe Lannert: Have a good one.
Chloe Lannert: Bye, guys.